I have a sweating problem What Alan Carrs Traitors admission tells us about how social taboos changed17 October 2025ShareSaveLuke MintzandMichelle Roberts,Digital health editorShareSaveBBCListen to Michelle read this articleAlan Carrs days on The Celebrity Traitors looked perilous from the start. Just 32 minutes into the first episode, after the comedian had been selected as a traitor, his body started to betray him.Beads of sweat began forming on his forehead, making his face shiny. I thought I wanted to be a traitor but I have a sweating problem, he admitted to cameras. And I cant keep a secret.Professor Gavin Thomas, a microbiologist at the University of York, was watching the episode. Alan does sweat a lot - and it looks like eccrine sweat, he says, referring to a common type of sweat, which comes from glands all over the body that can be activated by stress.Yet it was Carrs willingness to talk about his sweatiness - and the excitement of viewers who were quick to analyse it on social media - that was most striking of all.I thought I wanted to be a traitor... but I have a sweating problemAlan Carr is not the first. All sorts of well-known people, from Hollywood actors and models to singers, have opened up about bodily functions in ever more brazen detail over the last decade. Fellow Traitors contestant, the actress Celia Imrie, admitted in an episode this week I just farted... Its the nerves, but I always own up.On sweat struggles specifically, Steve Carrell and Emma Stone have talked openly, and model Chrissy Teigen revealed in 2019 that the perspiration around her armpits was so irritating that she had Botox injections to prevent it. Then, singer Adele announced on stage in Las Vegas in 2023 that she had contracted a fungal infection as a result of perspiring. I sweat a lot and it doesnt go anywhere, so I basically am just sitting in my own sweat, she told the thousands of people in the audience.Getty Images for ADAdele said on stage at her Los Angeles residency, I sweat a lot and it doesnt go anywhere, so I basically am just sitting in my own sweatNow fitness shops sell sweat suits, for use during exercise - and then there is the very name of the longstanding British activewear brand Sweaty Betty. Its founder declared a few years ago Its cool to sweat now.So, could this all really signal the end of the once-widespread taboo about talking about perspiration?The sauna business meetingAt a sauna in Peckham, south London, young professionals sit on scorching hot, wood-panelled benches, dressed in swimming trunks and bathing suits. Outside, they dunk themselves in metal ice baths. A DJ plays music in the background.Josh Clarricoats, 33, who owns a food start-up nearby, is a frequent visitor. He meets his business partner there every fortnight for meetings.Actually our best creative thinking happens when were there, he admits. Its something about sweating, being uncomfortable and the endorphins it releas