Magnesium Can this miracle mineral really help us sleep?24 October 2025ShareSaveRuth CleggHealth and wellbeing reporterShareSaveGetty ImagesIts been described as the mineral of the moment.Millions of us are taking magnesium for a whole range of reasons. Can it help us sleep better? Sort our digestion problems? Give our busy brains a moment of peace?In the fast-moving world of supplements, its magnesiums time to shine.And the industry is booming. The global magnesium market is worth almost 3bn and thats set to nearly double over the next decade.In a small factory, nestled in the Yorkshire Dales, huge plastic barrels of white powder are stacked up next to giant whirring machines.Workers in hazmat suits carefully weigh out magnesium citrate - a compound made by mixing the mineral with citric acid - into shiny, steel containers.Ruth CleggBBCMillions of magnesium tablets are produced in this factory every dayWe are sending our supplies all over the world, Andrew Goring, manager director of Lonsdale Health, explains. Around the UK, obviously, but also to Australia, parts of Asia, Kuwait, Iraq.Its one of our biggest sellers and the market just keeps growing.He is shouting over the hum of the pill presser, a machine that resembles a Dalek, which pops out dozens of small, white magnesium tablets a second.Do we actually need it? I bellow back. And why now? Why has it become so popular?Influencers, social media - thats whats pushing it, Mr Goring explains. Weve known about magnesium and its benefits for years and now, finally, its mainstream.I can almost hear the eye roll when I contact Kirsten Jackson, an IBS Dietitian, who specialises in gut health.Clever marketing schemes, Ms Jackson says, magnesium is involved in areas people are willing to invest in their sleep, digestion, mental health.But, she is keen to stress, this does not automatically mean we need supplements to improve those things.Magnesium is one of several minerals in our bodies. The recommended daily amount for women is 270mg and for men, its 300mg. We store about 25g.It might make up less than 1 of us but it is involved in over 300 different processes, Ms Jackson explains.It is especially important for our brain and mood, she says, because it helps nerves send messages properly and supports the building blocks of brain cell membranes.It also helps balance blood sugar levels, regulate blood pressure, and is an essential player in moving calcium and potassium in and out of our cells, which maintains the rhythm of our heartbeat.So, surely popping a pill full of the stuff should keep our bodies running smoothly?Its more complex than that, says Ms Jackson. For a magnesium supplement to work, we need to be lacking the mineral in the first place - and its difficult to test for any deficiency because the vast majority of our magnesium is stored in our bones and tissues.But on an individual level, many say the supplement has made a difference.Katie CurranKati