Why are resident doctors striking and how much are they paid?17 December 2025ShareSaveShareSaveGetty ImagesPatients were warned to expect some disruption as a five-day strike by resident doctors in England got under way on Wednesday 17 December. The British Medical Association BMA said 83 of its members had voted to continue with the walkout after ministers said they would not increase doctors pay.It is the 14th strike since the long-running dispute began in March 2023, and follows an earlier five-day walkout in mid-November.Who are resident doctors, previously called junior doctors?Resident doctors are qualified doctors who have completed a medical degree. They make up nearly half of all doctors in England, and work across the NHS including in AE and GP surgeries. After their initial degree and the mandatory two years of post-graduate foundation training, many choose to specialise in a particular area of medicine or surgery. They used to be known as junior doctors, but in September 2024 the government agreed to change the name of their role to better reflect their expertise. Full training can take a long time, so although some resident doctors may have only recently finished medical school, others could have more than a decade of practical experience and be responsible for most aspects of care. How much do resident doctors earn?During their first foundation year after finishing their medical degree, resident doctors in England earn a basic salary of 38,831. In their second year, this rises to 44,439. Medics are often expected to work night shifts, weekends and longer hours, for which they receive extra payments.After eight years or more, resident doctor salaries can progress to around 73,000.In 2023 and 2024, they received pay rises totalling 22, and in 2025 got an additional 5.4.What are the resident doctors pay demands?The BMA has called a series of strikes in England over pay and working conditions since 2023.It argues that resident doctors pay is 20 lower in real terms than it was in 2008, even after the 2025 increase.The government uses the Consumer Prices Index CPI measure of inflation to calculate public sector pay increases. However, the BMA says many resident doctors have large student loans and that interest on these is calculated using a different inflation measure called RPI, which is higher. Using the CPI measure, the government says resident doctors current pay is fair.But analysis from the Nuffield Trust think tank suggests pay has fallen 5 since 2008 if CPI is used, compared with nearly 20 with RPI. What have the government and the BMA said about the dispute?Health Secretary Wes Streeting says resident doctors have received the largest pay rises of any public sector employees over the last three years, totalling nearly 30. He insists the government will not offer any further increases.Instead, the the governments latest offer promised to accelerate the expansion of specialist training posts, which resident doc