Why are sperm donors having hundreds of children?13 December 2025ShareSaveJames Gallagher,Health and science correspondentandCatherine Snowdon,Health reporterShareSaveGettySome men are having vast numbers of children through sperm donation. This week the BBC reported on a man whose sperm contained a genetic mutation that dramatically raises the risk of cancer for some of his offspring. One of the most striking aspects of the investigation was that the mans sperm was sent to 14 countries and produced at least 197 children. The revelation was a rare insight into the scale of the sperm donor industry.Sperm donation allows women to become mothers when it might not otherwise be possible - if their partner is infertile, theyre in a same-sex relationship, or parenting solo. Filling that need has become big business. It is estimated the market in Europe will be worth more than 2bn by 2033, with Denmark a major exporter of sperm.So why are some sperm donors fathering so many children, what made Danish or so-called Viking sperm so popular, and does the industry need to be reined in?Most mens sperm isnt good enoughIf youre a man reading this, we are sorry to break it to you, but the quality of your sperm probably isnt good enough to become a donor - fewer than five in 100 volunteers actually make the grade.First, you have to produce enough sperm in a sample - thats your sperm count - then pass checks on how well they swim - their motility - and on their shape or morphology. Sperm is also checked to ensure it can survive being frozen and stored at a sperm bank. You could be perfectly fertile, have six children, and still not be suitable.Getty ImagesRules vary across the world, but in the UK you also have to be relatively young - aged 18-45 be free of infections like HIV and gonorrhoea, and not be a carrier of mutations that can cause genetic conditions like cystic fibrosis, spinal muscular atrophy and sickle cell disease.Overall, it means the pool of people that finally become sperm donors is small. In the UK, half the sperm ends up being imported.But biology means a small number of donors can make vast numbers of children. It takes just one sperm to fertilise an egg, but there are tens of millions of sperm in each ejaculation. Men will come to the clinic once or twice a week while theyre donating, which can be for months at a time.Sarah Norcross, the director of the Progress Educational Trust charity which works on fertility and genomics, said the donor sperm shortage made it a precious commodity and sperm banks and fertility clinics are maximising the use of available donors to meet demand.Some sperm is more popularAllan PaceyProf Allan Pacey From this small pool of donors, some mens sperm is just more popular than others.Donors are not chosen at random. Its a similar process to the savage reality of dating apps, when some men get way more matches than others.Depending on the sperm bank, you can browse photos, listen to their voice, find