Image source, James GallagherByJames GallagherInside Health presenter, BBC Radio 4Mention deadly cold and I think of polar explorers with icicles dangling from their beards and mountaineers tackling the heights of Everest of fingers turning black with frostbite and the chilling clutch of hypothermia. So I was sceptical when I was asked to take part in a cold experiment that took place at just 10 degrees Celsius. Yes, 10C.To me thats mild, nowhere near freezing and certainly no Arctic blast. Surely wed have to go much colder before putting a strain on the body? I was wrong.It sounds mild, but it is a real physiological challenge, Prof Damian Bailey, from the University of South Wales, tells me. Hes invited me to his laboratory to explore the impact of cold homes on our bodies and why such seemingly mild temperatures can become deadly. Ten degrees is the average temperature that people will be living in, if they cant afford to heat their homes, said Prof Bailey.And as I was about to find out, 10C has a profound impact on the heart, lungs and brain. Listen to Inside Health podcast How can a cold home affect your health?Im led into the environmental chamber in the corner of the laboratory - its all shiny metal walls and thick, heavy doors. In this air-tight room, scientists can precisely set the temperature, humidity and oxygen levels. Im hit with a blast of warm 21C air. The plan is to start at 21C, drop the temperature down to 10C and chart how my body responds to the chill. First, I am wired up to countless state-of-the-art gizmos for the most in-depth analysis my body has ever faced.My chest, arms and legs are dotted with monitors to track my body temperature, heart rate and blood pressure.You will look like something out of Star Wars, says Prof Bailey as another sensor and trailing cable is attached to my body. A headset is fitted to monitor the blood flow in my brain just as the first beads of sweat breakout on my brow an ultrasound inspects the carotid arteries in my neck hearing the rhythmic whoosh of blood going to my brain is oddly reassuring and I breathe into a huge tube that analyses the air I exhale. Image source, James GallagherImage caption, The outfit was not a choice - the scientists needed direct access to the skin to conduct the experimentThe measurements are done. The scientists know how my body performs in a pleasant 21C. So the fans kick in and a cool breeze gradually lowers the temperature in the chamber. Your brain is tasting your blood as we speak and its tasting the temperature and the brain is now sending signals to the rest of your body, Prof Bailey tells me. The goal is to keep my core - thats my major organs including my heart and liver - at around 37C.I was still unaware of the profound changes happening inside my body, but there were already clues on the outside. By the time the room has dropped to 18C I was no longer sweating and the hairs on my arms were starting to stand up to help insulate my