Flu wave hits Englands busiest AE - hundreds of patients are arriving a day11 December 2025ShareSaveChloe Hayward,BBC NewsandHugh Pym,Health editorShareSaveBBCPaige, who has type 1 diabetes, came into hospital with flu and dangerously high sugar levelsAt Englands busiest emergency unit, all the beds are full by midday.As one patient leaves his room at Leicester Royal Infirmarys acute unit, cleaning staff are waiting outside.He is barely out of the room before the bed is stripped and bleach is sprayed. The next patient is already waiting to come in.Over two days the BBC was given access to the hospital to witness first-hand how it is coping with an early surge of winter bug cases.Flu season has hit a month earlier than normal this year, with experts warning there appears to be a more severe strain of the virus - mutated H3N2 - circulating.Hospitals around the country, like this one in Leicester, are doing all they can to avoid becoming completely overwhelmed.Mutated H3N2 flu virus is circulating - so should you buy a vaccine this year?Is it a cold, super flu or Covid? How to tell the differenceHospitals facing unprecedented flu season, say NHS bossesBut staff at the Royal Infirmary say increasing numbers of people coming to hospital with the flu and other winter bugs - together with existing pressures - are hitting the hospital hard.They already worry about how they will cope this winter.Patients in every cubicleWhen 19-year-old Paige arrives at the hospital by ambulance, shes put on a trolley while a resus bed is cleared. Shes got the flu but also has type 1 diabetes and has dangerously high sugar levels. She is curled in a ball, pale and shaking.There are patients in every cubicle, Consultant Saad Jawaid says, as Paige is wheeled in. Another ambulance has just rocked up.We watch as he works with colleagues in the resus unit to find desperately needed bed spaces.When beds are full we have to move people - sometimes that means those who can sit are moved out of beds and into chairs, he says.Consultant Saad Jawaid works with colleagues to try to free up bedsPaige is given insulin and fluids to try to stabilise her sugar levels. The doctors hope her diabetes will be controlled soon. Getting better from the flu will take longer.The following day, Paige is in a side room on the acute assessment unit.I do struggle a lot in winter, she says. I was maybe in here two or three weeks ago. Infections and stuff just seem to hit harder than usual.The number of flu patients in hospital has hit a record high in England for this time of year with NHS leaders warning the country is facing an unprecedented flu season.At its busiest times, the emergency unit here in Leicester saw more than 1,000 patients a day last winter. On one of the days we were here, 932 patients came through the door. That number is expected to rise in the coming weeks.Attendance levels are already around 8 higher this year than last year. And the unit faces a daily shortage