Lip care is big business in the UK, worth an estimated Â80m and promoted by celebs like Charli XCX. But how can you really find out the facts about which products are worth it and which are the ones to avoid?Turning to your socials doesnât always help. There are more than three million Instagram posts with lipbalm and reviews of luxury balms, recommendations of more affordable alternatives and unboxing of the newest item on the market account for the army of videos about lip balms on TikTok. YouTube offers videos where dozens of balms are tested in one go - with an honest opinion at the end - and Reddit threads on luxury lip balms include comments from users unimpressed with the pricier versions, preferring the cheaper, more established products.Image caption, Reviews of different lip balm brands appear all over social media - with many different opinionsSo, how can you separate the facts from the fake claims when it comes to lip care? Does lip balm really help to keep chapped lips at bay? Are natural ingredients better for our lips? And is it true that the more you use lip balm, the more you need to use? Bitesize Other Side of the Storyâs teamed up with BBC Sounds podcast Sliced Bread to try and get you the answers.To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.This video can not be playedGreg Foot, presenter of the Sliced Bread podcast, talks lip balmsVideo TranscriptVideo TranscriptGreg So when our lips get cracked or chapped, is it simply them drying out?Dr Emma Craythorne Its exactly them drying out. So if you go to the Arctic where the humidity is really low, loads of water will leave the skin on your face and it will get all dry and cracked. But because the lips are even more sensitive, even in just normal cold conditions, our lips will dry out much more readily.What is lip balm?When we apply lip balm, it creates an protective layer on the lipâs surface. This seals moisture in and guards against outside elements such as the wind or low temperatures, or irritating foods like chilli peppers. It can also protect us from ourselves! When we lick our lips, the enzymes in our saliva can break down the natural protective barrier our lips already possess - known as lipids - and the ingredients in lip balm mimic those lipids, to rebuild the barrier.What are the ingredients in lip balm?Some lip balm ingredients are manufactured, such as petroleum jelly. Others are natural, such as beeswax. There has been some debate over which is better for you.Dr Emma Craythorne, a consultant dermatologistcloseDermatologistA doctor who specialises in diseases and conditions of the skin. and surgeon, who uses petroleum jelly as a lip balm, told the Sliced Bread podcast âSometimes if youâre creating something syntheticallycloseSyntheticA substance manufactured by humans rather than one which is made naturally. A synthetic substance can also mimic a natural substance., youâre making it in a more pure form, whereas if you have it fro