The doctor strike has ended - what comes next?30 July 2025ShareSaveNick TriggleHealth correspondentShareSaveBBCDr Shivam Sharma, right, feels let down by the health secretaryThe five-day doctor strike in England has ended, but it is clear this dispute - 12 walkouts and counting - is far from over. Weve been let down by Wes Streeting, says Dr Shivam Sharma, who joined one of the last picket lines of the walkout before it finished at 0700 on Wednesday. When Labour came to power they quickly managed to make a deal with the British Medical Association BMA, handing them extra money and promises of improvements to working conditions.Doctors took that as a sign that the journey towards restoring pay to 2008 levels was in sight but that still requires another 25 hike in pay, on top of previous rises, according to the BMA. Since last year he has not delivered, says Dr Sharma, who is six years into his training in child and adolescent psychiatry and is a BMA rep, when asked why walkouts have returned. Dr Sharma, who joined other striking doctors outside an east London hospital in Streetings constituency, says his years as a resident doctor, the new name for junior doctors, have been hard - harder than they should have been.He faced regular rotations through different jobs across the West Midlands in his early years. You can be posted anywhere across large geographic areas. You have little control over your rotas, people missing weddings and important family events.In September, he is sitting an exam which will set him back more than 1,000. Thats just for one exam. It can cost us tens of thousands of pounds over the course of our training.The BMAs position remains the best way to solve this dispute is to increase pay further. But with the government adamant pay for this year cannot be revisited resident doctors are getting an average 5.4 rise in 2025-26 attention has turned to non-pay issues.During five days of talks, which broke down on Tuesday last week, a range of topics were discussed, including exam fees, career progression and the frequency of job rotations, which for some can happen every four months.The BMA wanted to add writing off student loans medical students can rack up 100,000 of debts although the government refused to countenance this.Why are resident doctors striking and what are they paid?Breathing spaceWith the clock ticking, the dispute turned acrimonious when the BMA announced its first strike under Labour would go ahead. Streeting accused the BMA of being reckless and showing complete disdain for patients. The union responding by saying they were losing confidence in any of the promises being made.Tensions boiled over between NHS England and the union on Monday, with health leaders criticising the hardline approach of the BMA for blocking requests to let doctors return to work to deal with emergencies. The union has responded by accusing the NHS of putting patients at risk by stretching senior doctors cove