Sleep, exercise, hydrate - do we really need to stick to recommended daily doses?26 July 2025ShareSaveRuth CleggHealth and wellbeing reporterShareSaveGetty ImagesIt felt like there was a collective sigh of relief when a study, published this week, suggested 10,000 steps a day isnt the health utopia we had all been led to believe.The news that we only had to reach 7,000 steps was enough to quite literally stop us in our fervent step-counting stride.So what about some of the other health targets that many of us swear by? Can we fall short of the mark but still live long, healthy and happy lives?Weve taken a handful of commonly cited healthy lifestyle benchmarks, examined them with various experts to get an idea of why they exist, explored the health claims, and, most importantly asked if there is any wriggle room.Is sleep so important that we have to spend so much of our lives doing it? How much exercise is enough? What about drinking water? How much do we really need?Disclosure - the below is not medical advice, its more of an inspection of many of the health ideals we have on our radar.Water 6-8 glasses a dayGetty ImagesAccording to the NHS, the average grown-up should be drinking between six and eight glasses 1.5-2 litres of water a day. However, maybe we dont need to cart our fancy flagons around with us as much as we thought. Prof Neil Turner, kidney specialist at the University of Edinburgh, says as humans we existed for thousands of years without knowing what a pint or a litre was.I mean, mice dont need flashing water bottles telling them how much to drink - why do we? he says.Our bodies are set up to do things just right - we eat when we are hungry, we breathe when we need to breathe, and we drink when we are thirsty.Oh.Is it really that simple? According to Prof Turner, who has seen a lot of kidneys in his time, that rule applies to the vast majority of us. Those with specific conditions, like a kidney disorder, may have to drink more.He says if our urine is dark, in the general healthy population, we shouldnt panic that we havent drunk enough - that is the kidney doing its job. It is reserving water in our body, he explains, and our body should tell us that we feel thirsty and then we will get a drink.Dr Linia Patel, a performance nutritionist, disagrees. We might drink different amounts, she says, due to factors like our size, how warm we are, whether weve been drinking alcohol, but she feels having a target of 1.5 to 2 litres is a good thing - especially for women.I would definitely say from a womens health point of view, where I work, what I see is a lot of the symptoms associated with being dehydrated. It might be fatigue, constipation, brain fog, feeling hungry or cravings.She says that if the problem is related to hydration then its an easy one to get right, if youre consistent with it.Sleep 7-9 hours a nightGetty ImagesMoving on to sleep - the NHS recommends seven to nine hours a night for the average a