The English neighbourhood that claims to hold the secret to fixing the NHS7 April 2025ShareSaveNick TriggleHealth correspondentShareSaveBBCListen to this article on BBC SoundsMinisters, health staff and the public gathered in London last week for a summit to discuss the 10-year NHS plan in England. It was the final roadshow in a nationwide tour to help set out the strategy the government says will rescue the broken NHS, which has a waiting list of nearly 7.5 million patients and public satisfaction of just 21 - a record low.Not for the first time, moving healthcare away from hospitals and into the community is being touted as a way of treating people better and for less. Research suggests that every 100 spent on community care would otherwise cost 131 for hospital care.This helps explain why Health Secretary Wes Streeting has promised to turn the NHS into a neighbourhood health service.Washwood Heath, a community health clinic that was set up in a deprived part of east Birmingham two years ago when the Conservative government was in power, is a living, working example of what this could look like. Here, hospital doctors, GPs, nurses, occupational therapists, council social care teams, mental health professionals and charity staff work under one roof. Washwood Heath clinic brings together hospital staff, GPs, mental health teams, social care workers and charities under one roofThe three-storey building combines an urgent treatment centre offering some of the services usually provided by hospitals, as well as a diagnostic service for MRI scans, X rays and ultrasounds, alongside mental health care and wider social support. In practice, this allows for addressing social problems such as housing issues, alongside treating physical health conditions, plus arranging support for daily tasks such as washing and dressing.The target is the most frequent users of health services - and the aim is to keep them well and out of hospital. We want to work with the 10 of the population that is responsible for 70 to 80 of its use, explains Richard Kirby, head of Birmingham Community Healthcare NHS Trust, one of the key partners at Washwood Heath. The NHS cannot meet their needs on its own  it requires partnership working.Streeting himself is on board. Speaking to the BBC this week, he said that Washwood was a pioneering service and he is firm that the model could be the future of the NHS.However not everyone is convinced. And while few argue against the principle of more care within the community, there are wider questions around just how feasible it is on a bigger scale.A model system to unblock beds?In the middle of the clinic, staff gather around five touchscreens, each containing up-to-date information about patients from east Birmingham who are in hospital or making calls to the ambulance service. Their goal is to get these patients discharged from hospital as swiftly as they can - and keep them out.One way of doing this is by arranging remote