What is happening to flu this winter - and should you buy a vaccine?24 December 2025ShareSaveMichelle RobertsDigital health editorShareSaveGetty ImagesFlu has come early this winter with a new mutated version of the virus circulating. The NHS has already sent out a flu jab SOS encouraging vulnerable people to get their free vaccination. But should you pay for a jab even if you are generally fit and healthy, and how do you get one?What has been happening this winter?The version circulating this winter is H3N2 subclade K, a type of seasonal influenza A virus. Some are calling it super flu.That is not a medical term, and it does not mean the virus itself has become harder to treat.But people have not encountered much of it in recent years, which means there is less built up immunity against it in the community. Flu jabs still work to protect against severe illness. In early December, the number of flu patients in hospital hit a record high in England for this time of year. There were an average of 2,660 patients a day in hospital with flu - a rise of 55 on the previous week.But that rise slowed and has now decreased, latest figures show.Dr Jamie Lopez-Bernal, Consultant Epidemiologist at UK Health Security Agency said there was some encouraging news for the festive season as were seeing flu levels continuing to decline and fewer people having to be admitted to hospital over the past week.But he warned that the virus is still very much with us, adding everyone, especially those most vulnerable to these winter bugs, needs to take care to protect themselves or help not to spread these viruses to others.When will the current flu season peak?Its difficult to predict how long this wave of flu will last. NHS national medical director Meghana Pandit has warned that the health service is not out of the woods yet.People will also be socialising more during the Christmas and New Year period, and that gives the virus more opportunities to spread.Flu How are hospitals in your area affected?Flu in four charts - how this years winter outbreak is differentFlu wave hits Englands busiest AE - hundreds of patients are arriving a dayWho needs a flu jab?The NHS offers a free flu vaccine to those who need it most, including anyone aged 65 or overthose have certain long-term health conditionspregnant womencare home residentscarers for older or disabled people, or those who receive a carers allowancepeople who live with someone who has a weakened immune systemFrontline health and social care workers can get a flu vaccine through their employer. A nasal spray version of the flu vaccine is also offered to children aged 2 to 3 years as well as school-aged children reception to year 11. Children can catch and spread flu easily. Vaccinating them also helps protect others who are at higher risk of getting seriously ill from flu.Everyone else has to buy one.Should I buy a flu jab and how can I book one?Even if you are healthy, you might want to buy a f