You can now book online to see your GP. But is it any easier to get an appointment?8 November 2025ShareSaveNick TriggleHealth correspondentShareSaveGetty ImagesGP Dr David Turner no longer sees patients on a Wednesday morning.Instead, he spends that time sifting through the online appointment requests to work out what each patient needs. Last week there were 84 requests, and the week before it was more than 100. Its relentless - you get about two minutes to look at each, Dr Turner says. Were getting lots of requests we would not have had previously - questions like, Should I take this food supplement? Previously patients would not have bothered GPs with things like that.Obviously, the concern is there is something serious buried in there - I know of a practice which only realised at 620pm there was a patient that needed an urgent home visit. If they had come through on the phone it would have been recognised straight away.Dr Turners Hertfordshire practice started complying with a new government directive to offer online booking for non-urgent appointments across England in September.Dr David TurnerDr David Turner spends a lot of time sifting through online booking requests since the new system came into forceThe idea is make it easier for patients to book non-urgent appointments or ask questions - and end the 0800 scramble to get through on the telephone and, in turn, free up lines for urgent cases. But the increased administrative workload for doctors means the practice is now offering fewer appointments overall.Im not sure the government has properly thought this through, Dr Turner says.His union, the British Medical Association, is so worried it has opened a formal dispute with the government about the new approach, warning GPs are going to be overwhelmed and that could put patients at risk.This opens the option of the BMA introducing a work-to-rule limiting the number of patients GPs will agree to see.But how do patients feel? Members of the public told Your Voice, Your BBC News that while the online system is welcome it is being undermined by the long-standing problem of a lack of available appointments.Theres still no appointmentsJoJo has had difficulties getting an appointment online - but says other digital NHS services are working wellJo, 53, a former finance director for a private hospital who lives in Kent, has tried using the online system - but there have been no slots available.She has regular contact with her GP surgery as she is on thyroid medication after having half her larynx removed because of a benign tumour.My practice is meeting the requirement for online booking, but whats the point if you cant get an appointment?However, Jos dissatisfaction goes further than just getting access. I know staff are really busy, but sometimes their attitude is so dismissive and frankly rude, she says. I went in for a blood test recently and the nurse was so abrupt. They dont realise how frightening it is when you ar