What is chickenpox and who can get an NHS vaccine?5 days agoShareSaveMichelle RobertsDigital health editor, BBC NewsShareSaveGetty ImagesCalamine lotion can be used to help relieve the itchiness of chickenpox spotsYoung children in the UK are being offered protection against chickenpox on the NHS for the first time. It is being added to the list of standard childhood vaccinations from the start of January, and there will be a catch-up programme for older children. What is chickenpox and how can you catch it?Chickenpox is a highly contagious disease caused by the varicella zoster virus VZV. The virus is transmitted through direct contact between people, or through airborne droplets in coughs and sneezes.It is very easy to catch, especially if youve never had it before.While it mostly affects children - around half have had it by their fourth birthday - people of any age can get it. What are the symptoms of chicken pox and what does the rash look like?Getty ImagesThe first symptoms include a fever, muscle aches and pains and generally feeling unwell. A couple of days later, an itchy, spotty rash appears. These red or pink dots can appear anywhere on the body, including inside the mouth.Some children might have only a few spots, but others can be covered from head to toe.The spots fill up with fluid and become blisters before crusting over to form scabs, which eventually drop off and clear up.You are contagious and can spread chickenpox to other people from two days before the first spots develop until they have all formed scabs, which is usually five days after they first appear.Who can get the chickenpox vaccine on the NHS? Protection against chickenpox is offered in a new, combined vaccine called MMRV which will replace MMR. This combined jab helps protect against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella chickenpox.Children born after 1 January 2026 will be automatically offered two doses of the MMRV vaccine at 12 months and 18 months.A catch-up programme will offer one or two doses to older children, depending on their date of birth children born on or after 1 January 2025 will be offered two doses, one at 12 months and one at 18 monthschildren born between 1 July 2024 and 31 December 2024 will be offered two doses, one at 18 months and another at the age of 3 years and 4 monthschildren born between 1 September 2022 and 30 June 2024 will be offered one dose at 3 years and 4 monthschildren born between 1 January 2020 and 31 August 2022 will be offered a single dose later in 2026GP surgeries will contact families to arrange an appointment when the vaccinations are due. How does the new chickenpox vaccination work?Experts say adding the varicella vaccine to the official NHS childhood immunisation programme will dramatically reduce the number of people who catch chickenpox, leading to far fewer serious cases. The vaccine doesnt guarantee lifetime immunity, but it does greatly reduce the risk of someone developing chickenpox or having a bad case.