Children with cancer scammed out of millions fundraised for their treatment, BBC finds16 December 2025ShareSaveSimi Jolaoso,Jack GoodmanandSarah Buckley,BBC Eye InvestigationsShareSaveChance LetikvaWarning Disturbing contentA little boy faces the camera. He is pale and has no hair.I am seven years old and I have cancer, he says. Please save my life and help me.Khalil - who is pictured above in a still from the film - didnt want to record this, says his mother Aljin. She had been asked to shave his head, and then a film crew hooked him up to a fake drip, and asked his family to pretend it was his birthday. They had given him a script to learn and recite in English.And he didnt like it, says Aljin, when chopped onions were placed next to him, and menthol put under his eyes, to make him cry.Aljin agreed to it because, although the set-up was fake, Khalil really did have cancer. She was told this video would help crowdfund money for better treatment. And it did raise funds - 27,000 20,204, according to a campaign we found in Khalils name.But Aljin was told the campaign had failed, and says she received none of this money - just a 700 524 filming fee on the day. One year later, Khalil died.Across the world, desperate parents of sick or dying children are being exploited by online scam campaigns, the BBC World Service has discovered. The public have given money to the campaigns, which claim to be fundraising for life-saving treatment. We have identified 15 families who say they got little to nothing of the funds raised and often had no idea the campaigns had even been published, despite undergoing harrowing filming.Nine families we spoke to - whose campaigns appear to be products of the same scam network - say they never received anything at all of the 4m 2.9m apparently raised in their names.A whistleblower from this network told us they had looked for beautiful children who had to be three to nine years old without hair.We have identified a key player in the scam as an Israeli man living in Canada called Erez Hadari. Watch how three children, including Ana from Colombia, appeared in campaign videosOur investigation began in October 2023, when a distressing YouTube advert caught our attention. I dont want to die, a girl called Alexandra from Ghana sobbed. My treatments cost a lot.A crowdfunding campaign for her appeared to have raised nearly 700,000 523,797.We saw more videos of sick children from around the world on YouTube, all strikingly similar - slickly produced, and seemingly having raised huge amounts of money. They all conveyed a sense of urgency, using emotive language.We decided to investigate further.The campaigns with the biggest apparent international reach were under the name of an organisation called Chance Letikva Chance for Hope, in English - registered in Israel and the US.Identifying the children featured was difficult. We used geolocation, social media and facial recognition software to find thei