Generation K The disturbing rise of ketamine abuse among young people25 February 2025ShareSaveJane Deith,BBC File on 4 InvestigatesandJill CollinsShareSaveBBCListen to Jane read this articleAt the urology department of Burnley General Hospital, 26-year-old Ryan not his real name is having a drug solution inserted through a catheter - part of his treatment for a condition known as ketamine bladder. This procedure will not completely reverse the damage inflicted by Ryans previous addiction to the Class B drug, but it will help him manage the symptoms.Ketamine, a powerful horse tranquiliser and anaesthetic, is a licensed drug and can be prescribed medically. However, when misused, it can cause serious and sometimes permanent damage to the bladder. The hospital is watching Ryan for signs of kidney failure, too. He worries about finding a girlfriend and having children. But he is stoical when he talks about passing blood and having to urinate numerous times a day.You could not be a ketamine addict for 30 years, 20 years, he says. Youd die.He is under the care of consultant urologist Haytham Elsakka, who says he has witnessed a rise in young patients whose bladders have been damaged by ketamine use. Some of them are in their 30s, but most of them are 16 to 24, says Dr Elsakka. Around half of young patients end up needing surgery, he adds. Other risks from recreational use include liver failure, damage to the urethra, incontinence and impotence.We have seen young people under the age of 25 whove completely lost control of their bladders, who have had to have surgery, including bladder removal, says Abigail Wilson, lead clinical pharmacist for national drug and alcohol charity WithYou.Getty ImagesLancashire County Council says it is supporting a growing number of families affected by ketamine addiction in the Burnley areaIn and around the town of Burnley, Ryan is far from alone. Lancashire County Council says it is helping a growing number of families affected by ketamine addiction in the Burnley area. According to WithYou, which runs a ketamine support service for young people aged 11 to 24, the number seeking help across Lancashire increased from 32 in 2018-19 to 123 by the end of 2024.And the area is not unusual. In England, the number of under-18s entering drug treatment who describe ketamine as one of their problem substances rose from 335 to 917 between 2020-21 and 2023-24, according to the National Drug Treatment Monitoring System.An anonymised 2023 survey of more than 13,000 secondary schoolchildren from 185 schools across England reported 11 of 15-year-olds had been offered ketamine at some point. The same study, conducted for NHS England, suggested the use of ketamine among schoolchildren had more than doubled in the last decade from 0.4 in 2013 to 0.9 in 2023.The drug came into the spotlight following the death of Friends actor Matthew Perry aged 54, after which a coroner found ketamine had been the primary cause. Doctors and