Your nose gets colder when youre stressed. These thermal images show the change12 October 2025ShareSaveVictoria GillScience correspondent, BBC NewsShareSaveWatch science correspondent Victoria Gill put herself through a thermal imaging stress testWhen I was asked to give an impromptu five-minute speech and then to count backwards in intervals of 17 - all in front of a panel of three strangers - the acute stress was written on my face.That is because psychologists from the University of Sussex were filming this somewhat terrifying experience for a research project that is studying stress using thermal cameras.Stress alters the blood flow in the face, and scientists have discovered that the drop in temperature of a persons nose can be used as a measure of stress levels, and to monitor recovery.Thermal imaging, according to the psychologists behind the study could be a game changer in stress research.Kevin ChurchBBCThe temperature drop in the nose, seen in the thermal image on the right, happens because stress affects our blood flow. The experimental stress test that I subjected myself to is carefully controlled and deliberately designed to be an unpleasant surprise. I arrived at the university with no idea what I was in for. First, I was asked to sit, relax and listen to white noise through a set of headphones. So far, so calming. Then, the researcher who was running the test invited a panel of three strangers into the room. They all stared at me silently as the researcher informed that I now had three minutes to prepare a five minute speech about my dream job. As I felt the heat rise around my neck, the scientists captured my face changing colour through their thermal camera. My nose quickly dropped in temperature - turning blue on the thermal image - as I considered how to bluster my way through this unplanned presentation. I decided I would take the opportunity to make my pitch to join the astronaut training programme!The Sussex researchers have carried out this same stress test on 29 volunteers. In each, they saw their nose dip in temperature by between three and six degrees. My nose dropped in temperature by two degrees, as my nervous system pushed blood flow away from my nose and to my eyes and ears - a physical reaction to help me to look and listen for danger. Most participants, like me, recovered quickly their noses warmed to pre-stressed levels within a few minutes. Lead researcher, Prof Gillian Forrester explained that being a reporter and broadcaster has probably made me quite habituated to being put in stressful positions. You are used to the camera and talking with strangers, so youre probably quite resilient to social stressors, she explained. But even someone like you, trained to be in stressful situations, shows a biological blood flow shift, so that suggests this nasal dip is a robust marker of a changing stress state.Kevin ChurchBBC NewsThe nasal dip happens in just a few minutes when we are acutely s