How many of us will end up being diagnosed with ADHD?15 September 2024ShareSaveCatherine BurnsHealth CorrespondentShareSaveBBCThe number of people taking ADHD medication is at a record high  and the NHS is feeling the strain as it tries to diagnose and treat the condition.Since 2015, the number of patients in England prescribed drugs to treat ADHD has nearly trebled, and BBC research suggests that it would take eight years to assess all the adults on waiting lists.Last year, ADHD was the second-most viewed condition on the NHS website. Concern about this rising demand has prompted the NHS in England to set up a taskforce.So whats going on and where will it end? Is ADHD attention deficit hyperactivity disorder becoming more common? Are we just getting better at recognising it? Or is it being over-diagnosed?It turns out its not just you and I who have been taken by surprise  so have the experts.Dr Ulrich Müller-Sedgwick, the ADHD champion for the UKs Royal College of Psychiatrists, says Nobody predicted that the demand would go up so massively over the last 15 years, and especially the last three years. Hes been running adult ADHD clinics since 2007. At the time, he says, there were just a few of them.ADHD is a fairly novel condition  its only 16 years since the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence NICE officially recognised it in adults. When considering whether it might keep increasing, Dr Müller-Sedgwick argues that there are two different concepts to consider prevalence and incidence.Prevalence is the percentage of people who have ADHD  Dr Müller-Sedgwick predicts that will stay pretty steady at 3 to 4 of adults in the UK.Incidence is the number of new cases  people getting a diagnosis. Thats where were seeing an increase. He explains What has changed is the number of patients we are diagnosing. Its almost like the more we diagnose, the more word spreads.Getty ImagesStatistics suggest children with ADHD in England might be under-treated, rather than over-medicatedProf Emily Simonoff echoes this. She is a child and adolescent psychiatrist at the Kings Maudsley Partnership for Children and Young People. She thinks about 5 to 7 of children have ADHD in the UK  and says Its pretty similar across the world, thats been consistent and it hasnt actually risen.Prof Simonoff agrees that theres been a steep incline in people coming forward for assessment since the pandemic  but says this comes after years of long-term under-recognition.She points to statistics on ADHD drugs. She would expect about 3 to 4 of children in the UK to need ADHD medication, but in reality, only 1 to 2 are actually using it. She thinks this shows that we are still underestimating the scale of the issue.Prof Simonoff explains I think thats an important starting point for when we say, My goodness, why are we seeing all these children now  are we over-identifying ADHD? We have under-diagnosed or under-recognised ADHD in th