At 21, I was crushed by a strangers joke about going bald. Then the way I looked at myself changed1 November 2025ShareSaveIan CaseyShareSaveBBCIm bald, and that bothered me for a long time. It bothered me that I was bothered. But just one swipe down my Instagram feed reveals Im not the only man who is self-conscious about his hair.Im greeted with videos and posts offering me hair transplants, regrowth tablets, thickening sprays, powders that fill gaps, and hair systems once known as wigs or toupees.These products promise to restore my lost confidence and stop my lack of hair from holding back my life.But does the wealth of treatment options on offer mean attitudes towards hair loss have shifted? Is what was once viewed as something to be resigned to now seen as reversible, albeit at a cost?According to the International Society of Hair Restoration Surgery ISHRS, hair transplants are becoming more common around the world - and the people having them are getting younger.This global collective of surgeons, doctors and experts found 95 of its members patients sought hair restoration surgery between the ages of 20 and 35 - and thats something hair-loss surgeon Dr Nilofer Farjo confirms is mirrored in the UK.When my hair first began to recede in my early 20s, I tried my best to cover it up, tactically styling and positioning it in a way that hid the new patches of scalp I hadnt seen before.Then, while out for my brothers stag do in a Liverpool nightclub, something happened that I havent been able to forget since. I had suggested we wear white t-shirts and carry permanent markers so people we met could leave funny messages on our shirts.Best man? Best comb-over, one woman wrote.I laughed it off at the time, but inside, I was crushed. It was clear my hair loss was now noticeable to other people. And from then on, I became more and more self-conscious about my thinning hair. Why did I think this was a good idea...?When I was younger, bald men were often the butt of jokes - but taking steps to regain lost hair seemed to be viewed as effeminate and vain. Still, I began to wonder if a hair transplant was my only option. Was that a possibility for someone like me? In my mind, they were only for rich people, and celebrities like Elton John.Fast forward ten years, and social media and dating apps have made us all more aware of how we look, says Dr Farjo, and seeing celebrities and influencers being more open about hair transplants has normalised the procedure.She says more and more young men are now choosing to treat their hair loss, and what might have once been deemed vanity is now considered routine self-care.When I started considering having a hair transplant, I had just finished university, had little money, and no real idea how much the procedure might actually cost.I began to do some research and discovered a nearby transplant clinic offering free consultations and monthly payment plans.Youre still quite young, I remember t