Caffeine pouch craze A teenage trend troubling some experts1 August 2025ShareSaveMichelle RobertsDigital health editor, BBC NewsShareSaveGetty ImagesA growing number of US teenagers are using caffeine pouches to get an energy rush, say experts who worry the trend could soon take off in the UK. The small teabag-like pouches, placed between the lip and gum, deliver a quick caffeine hit, straight to the bloodstream. Some social media influencers are pushing products, recommending them to gym-goers for performance or to students who want to be alert for exams. TikTok Shop sells lots of brands and flavours that could appeal to young people, says Dr Rob van Dam from George Washington University.But with a single pouch containing as much caffeine as two cups of regular coffee, it could be easy to take too much and get bad side effects, he says.There is already growing concern in the UK about young people using nicotine pouches or snus.Caffeine pouches are also discreet - you may not be able to tell if someone has one in their mouth - making it easy to hide from parents and teachers. Some fans of the product boast online about buzzing from using two pouches at once for an extra big caffeine rush. As caffeine is rapidly absorbed, the effects may begin minutes after ingestion and last for a number of hours. Levels can go out of control. Dr van Dam told BBC News Young people may have less tolerance to caffeine and theres a chance they could end up in the emergency room if they have too much.Why caffeine and what happens if you have too much?Getty ImagesCaffeine is a stimulant that can make you feel more alert and less sleepy due to its effect on the brain and nervous system. Lewis James, from the School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences at Loughborough University, says there is good evidence that caffeine can help make exercise feel easier. Its become one of the most regularly used supplements among athletes.As you exercise your body produces a chemical called adenosine which makes you feel tired. Caffeine blocks the adenosine receptors in your nerves, so your brain perceives less pain and fatigue.But it acts on other parts of the body too - including the cardiovascular system - which can be risky.High levels can cause a rapid heart rate, abnormal heart rhythms and seizures. Although rare, there are documented deaths from excess caffeine.Personal trainer dies from caffeine overdoseTeen dies after drinking caffeine too fastSome people are more sensitive to caffeine than others and can feel nauseous, anxious and irritable, and get headaches even at lower doses. Generally, up to 400mg of caffeine a day appears to be safe for most healthy adults - thats around four cups of instant coffee.Tea contains a bit less, so five cups a day is usually fine. Pregnant women are advised to halve daily intake to 200mg or less. Children and teenagers are also more susceptible to the risks and potential for an overdose. This is why energy drinks containing over 1