The debate about whether the NHS should use magic mushrooms to treat depression5 days agoShareSavePallab GhoshScience CorrespondentShareSaveBBCListen to Pallab read this articleLarissa Hope believes psilocybin, the active ingredient in magic mushrooms, helped her through a difficult mental health condition.Back when she was 17 and starting out as an actress, she was cast in the TV drama Skins, but the new-found fame brought out a previously buried trauma. She didnt find antidepressants effective - but that small dose of psilocybin, which she took under clinical supervision, marked a turning point.When I experienced it, I burst out crying, she says today. It was the first time in my life I had ever felt a sense of belonging and safety in my body I kept saying, Im home, Im home.Now, almost 20 years on, Larissa maintains that it was this, along with therapy, helped her confront suicidal feelings.Not everyone feels the same. Jules Evans, a university researcher, had a very different experience when he first took LSD, albeit for recreational purposes, back when he was 18. The trip sent him into what he describes as a deluded state.I believed that everyone was talking about me, criticising me, judging me. I thought, Ive permanently damaged myself Ive permanently lost my mind. It was the most terrifying experience of my life.A scan comparison shows a hyperactive brain of a psychedelic user next to someone who hasnt taken psychedelicsToday he is director of the Challenging Psychedelic Experiences Project, which helps people experiencing difficulties after taking psychedelics. He says he felt socially anxious and suffered from panic attacks years after his own experience and was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder PTSD.But these two starkly different experiences are at the heart of a dilemma currently facing doctors, regulators and politicians.That is should doctors be allowed to prescribe treatments that involve the use of magic mushrooms and other potentially useful psychedelic drugs?Magic mushrooms and depressionThe question has come to the fore amid a series of new studies that suggest psychedelic drugs could help treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, PTSD, trauma and addictions such as alcohol and gambling.The use of psychedelic medicine is illegal at present unless in authorised research or clinical trials. But since 2022, more than 20 such trials have tested different psychedelic medicines for conditions such as depression, PTSD, and addiction. The results of many of these studies suggest that the treatments can help, while several others have mixed or unclear results. Only a few so far have clearly found no benefit on their main measures.Results from one of the largest clinical trials into the use of psilocybin, by UK biotech firm Compass Pathways, is due later this year. Getty ImagesProf Oliver Howes, chair of the Royal College of Psychiatrists Psychopharmacology Committee, sees psychedelics as a promisi