How does the disposable vape ban work, and how harmful is vaping? 9 September 2025ShareSaveShareSavePeter Dazeley Getty CreativeDisposable vapes have been found to damage the environmentIt has been illegal for businesses to sell or supply disposable vapes in the UK since June 2025.The government said the ban would reduce environmental damage and help cut the number of children and young people vaping.How does the disposable vape ban work?The ban on disposable vapes applies to both shops and online retailers. Those caught breaking the law in England face a minimum 200 fine, with a prison sentence of up to two years for repeat offences. Penalties are broadly similar in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Trading Standards can seize any single-use vapes being sold. Only reusable devices can be legally sold. They must have a rechargeable battery, a replaceable coil, and be refillable.Vapes should be returned to stores or recycling centres for specialist handling.However, waste firm Biffa told the BBC it had seen an increase in the number of vapes incorrectly mixed in with general recycling since the ban. It said this has caused an increase in fires. Vapes contain lithium-ion batteries, which can catch fire when crushed in bin lorries or at recycling centres. Biffa said it dealt with 60 fires caused by vapes and other small electrical items in June alone. Another of the UKs largest waste firms, Veolia, said vapes and other battery-operated items cause a fire every day in its lorries and facilities. BiffaA suspected vape fire at a recycling facility in Aldridge, Staffordshire in JanuaryWhy are disposable vapes bad for the environment?Almost five million single-use vapes were thrown away each week in 2023, according to the Department for Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs Defra.Vapes contain circuit boards which can leak toxic compounds such as cobalt and copper if they are not disposed off correctly, posing a risk to fish and marine mammals. These minerals and the lithium could - if properly recovered - be reused for green technologies such as electric car batteries or in wind turbines.However, recycling vapes is not straightforward because of their size and the way they are manufactured, making them difficult to take apart. Disposable vape ban begins - but will it have an impact? Millions of vapes seized in illegal trade crackdownI ordered drug-laced vapes on Snapchat. It was as easy as picking up pizzaHow else are vaping rules changing?Vaping taxVaping products are already subject to 20 VAT but, unlike tobacco, they do not attract a separate additional tax.However, a new vaping duty will start on 1 October 2026. It will be charged at a flat rate of 2.20 per 10ml vaping liquid.At the same time, tobacco duty will be increased to preserve the financial incentive for cigarette smokers to switch to vaping.Advertising and sponsorship banThe governments Tobacco and Vapes Bill - which is currently making its way through Parliament - will outlaw v