Some schools disrupted amid rise in flu cases9 December 2025ShareSaveHazel Shearing,Education correspondentandKate McGough,Education reporterShareSaveGetty ImagesSome schools have had to bring back Covid-like measures to prevent the spread of flu, as rates of reported illnesses in schools and other educational settings are higher than this time last year. One primary school in Leeds said last week it had to cut back on singing in assemblies and introduce sanitisation stations, while another in Caerphilly had to close temporarily.Flu season has come early this year and some hospitals have asked staff, patients and visitors to wear face masks. The Association of School and College Leaders said they were aware of winter illnesses causing disruption in several schools across the UK.The Department for Education DfE in England said school closures should only happen in extreme circumstances.The most recent data from the UK Health Security Agency UKHSA, which monitors the spread of winter viruses, found there were 107 acute respiratory incidents in educational settings in England between 24 and 30 November. An acute respiratory incident is defined for a school as two or more cases occurring among pupils within a five-day period. It could apply to a range of respiratory illnesses like influenza, RSV, covid or the common cold. Of the 107 incidents reported in education settings for the last week of November, 17 identified influenza as the virus involved, with two more schools reporting Covid as the cause. In 76 cases the school didnt know which respiratory infection was affecting them. In comparison, during the same week last year there were only 15 respiratory incidents in educational settings overall, with only one due to influenza. Flu is on the rise in the UK, according to the UKHSA - with a weekly average positivity rate of 17.1 among reported test results as of 2 December, up from 11.6 the week before.The H3N2 subclade K variant of the virus is circulating. It is a mutated strain of the seasonal influenza A virus and people have not encountered much of it in recent years. That means there is less built-up immunity against it.Flu season has come early - should you buy a vaccine this year?Is it a cold, super flu or Covid? How to tell the differenceMasks to be worn in hospitals as flu cases surgeIn Leeds, a primary school has reduced singing in assemblies to reduce the spread of flu. Wigton Moor Primary School said 70 children, or one in six pupils, were off sick or sent home on one day last week with high temperatures and coughs. Head teacher Elaine Bown called it the worst year for sickness since she started teaching almost 14 years ago. The school has also introduced Covid-style measures like opening windows and implementing sanitisation stations.In Caerphilly, Wales, St Martins School closed temporarily for a firebreak period after more than 250 pupils and staff fell ill with a flu-like illness. And in Northern Ireland th